# *Staphylococcus epidermidis* project

## About this repository

This repository contains code to for the identification of insertion site elements in publicly available *Staph epidermidis (S. epi)* genomes.

The dataset was obtained from NCBI, downloaded on 06/04/2025, resulting in 225 genomes, using this exact command from the `ncbi-datasets` CLI tool. We only chose complete assemblies, no metagenome-assembled genomes (MAGs), and with the assembly source being RefSeq.

```         
datasets download genome taxon 'Staphylococcus epidermidis' --assembly-level complete --include genome,cds,protein,gbff --mag exclude --assembly-source 'RefSeq'
```

# Repository organization:

-   `./code`: Where the code, figures and tables are contained. ./code/scripts/: Contains the Rmarkdown file that details all the code used to perform the analysis (command line tools, settings, etc.) as well and the R code used to plot the data.

-   `./code/scripts/figures`: The figures generated by the Rmarkdown file.

-   `./code/scripts/tables`: The tables generated by the Rmarkdown file.

-   `./code/scripts/htcondor_scripts`: the ISEScan and Defense-Finder analyses was performed on a High-throughput computing (HTC) system using HTCondor on CHTC. The exact submit and sh files are included and were used for job submission.

## References

This is the code written by Patricia Tran for the project in collaboration with My Tran and Charlie Mo in the Department of Bacteriology at the University of Wisconsin-Madison.

Publication: [to be announced]
